# Welcome! #

Hello, and thank you for your interest in my portfolio page! Please take a look at some projects I've done throughout my programming career. The last couple of years I've chosen to focus more on security than software engineering, but this code forms the base for most of my knowledge. I've included a little bit of everything, so please click around and see what interests you! Below you'll see descriptions of everything that I've included, so please give them a brief look before diving in.

# Other Repos of Interest #

Before explaining the folders here, sometimes my work is done in a separate GitHub repository. Rather than placing one repository in the other, I've chosen to provide links to them here. Please click the links provided and check out my other projects!

* [Click here](https://github.com/MANA624/therealpi "The Real Pi GitHub") (last updated Fall '19) for the source to my personal web site, [therealpi.net](https://therealpi.net "The Real Pi Link"). To log in, use the following credentials: username: `employer` and password: `hireme123`. Please take a look at what I've done to demonstrate my ability to create, maintain, and defend a full-stack application. From installing certificates to sanitizing user input to hashing passwords, I've personally implemented the common security techniques that keep a system safe. There are more technical specs on the site, but I personally wrote and set up everything on a Raspberry Pi in my room. It's my largest fun personal hobby, and it has some utility.
* [Command-Line Chess](https://github.com/MANA624/OOAD-Project "OOAD GitHub") (Spring '19) is a scalable Java application that allows users to enter chess moves using algebraic notation and checks the validity of the user's move. The idea was to program a dynamic backend with an MVP framework in that can handle the complexities of the rules of chess. This was my final project for Object-Oriented Analysis and Design. I worked with a partner, but I enjoyed working on it so much I really dominated the work (the workload was fair and agreed-upon). This is my most organized Java project, and I really hope to come back to it some day and create some more features, because the code would be very easy to scale and contribute to. Score: 100%

# Descriptions of Projects in This Repo #

Below is a brief description on each of the projects that are here in the Portfolio repository. Currently the order is alphabetical, so I'd recommend browsing by title. These are school projects when noted and projects I did for fun when not.

* Algorithms (Spring '17) contains all the work that I did for my Algorithms class problem sets. There were 10 problem sets throughout the class covering many topics, but if you're looking for one highlight, I recommend Problem Set 6. My partner and I split the work, so I ended up doing the programming portion of that assignment on string alignment in Python. Overall homework score: 108%
* Averager (last updated Spring '17) is a dynamic Python GUI that averages school grades. It was one of my first projects I did when I started programming, though I've refactored and enhanced it a couple of times since then. It came from a time when I didn't really know what to do as a programmer and figured everything would end up in a GUI. So, I wrote a Python application to keep track of my grades and calculate them; this kept me from having to spend so much time doing the tedious things during the semester. It also manages those pesky syllabi you can never seem to find...
* Networking (Fall '17) contains my four C programming assignments from Network Systems. My favorite is the web proxy, though they should all hold interesting, slightly different, content. Inside each folder is `Assignment.pdf`, which contains the description of what was required, a `README`, a `Makefile`, my C code, and some sample files used when appropriate. These were all completed on my own. Overall programming assignment score: 105%
* Proc (Fall '18) was an assignment from Advanced Operating Systems. The point of the assignment was to go into the /proc file system in Linux and learn all about memory management and the structure of process memory. I also got to edit the stack with another program with root access to show what one can do with root access. The problem statement and materials provided are in Description.pdf. My solution and screenshots are demonstrated in Solution.pdf. Source code is also provided. Score: 100%
* Rootkit (Fall '18) was another assignment from Advanced Operating Systems. The project was creating an LKM rootkit that hides certain files from `ls` by intercepting the `getdents()` system call and replacing it with my own wrapper. Then I wrote a countermeasure to this by writing another LKM that saves the system call table, then compares it with what it finds later. Finally, I wrote another version of the rootkit that defeats this countermeasure. This is one of my favorite assignments I've done to date. Description.pdf tells a wonderful story about LKMs, syscalls, memory, processes, and so much more. The source code, Makefiles, and all material used are in the numbered files - each file corresponds to a part of the assignment. Score: 100%
* Shell (Fall '16) was an assignment from Computer Systems. The project was to make my own shell in C that could parse commands, execute them accordingly, and handle signals appropriately. Concurrent programs were created using the fork() command. The point of the lab was to make everything clean, and to absolutely ensure that you're reaping your zombie children. This lab introduced me to systems-level programming. Score: 95%
* therealpi.co.nf (last updated ~2016) was therealpi.net before I actually knew anything about programming. I keep this here more for historical purposes and highlighting progress rather than ability. 
* DiffEqProject.pdf (Fall '17) is just one example of some math I did. I worked with a project partner and made a Star Wars reference or two. Oh, and there may be some work involving systems of differential equations, eigenvectors, Jacobians, MATLAB code, and numerical analysis as well; granted, it may not make so much sense out of context. Project score: 100%
